Day 5 - Basics of GenAI

LLM:
input -> Encoding(Tokenization, Mathematical numbers) -> LLM(Start to predict next word, answers by generating Self Attention Mechanism ) -> Decoding(Embedding, token) -> output

Types:
LLM - text
LMM - Large multi model(Google Gemini
SLM - Small language model
VLM - Vision Language Model and so on
Just understand how LLM works and it is enough for now

LLM types: Open source LLM and cloud LLM:

Open Source LLM:
Ollama, Hugging face
Each models have capabilities.
Context - how many tokens(input) can be taken by that model

Closed LLM: Frontier models:
OpenAI
Anthropic
Grok 
Gemini

Open API key for close LLMs - to build agents. Buy 10$ top up.


Take 1:open source model and write down the capabilities 
Task 2:Go to Anthropic platform. Login and check models. complete analyze and write about 1 model
Task 3:Grok platform - grok console ai
Task 4:Google AI models

How to purchase open API keys for closed LLM:
platform.openai.com
search: billing -> Add credits -> Add payment details -> Disable auto renewal
Create new secret key.
using this, we will build agents, automations, micro SaaS, etc..

LLM benchmarks:
where to see benchmarks. for every models, check for release. Check in goggle search

Gen AI tools:
tools required to complete this course

GenAI Chat tools: Chatgpt, Gemini, Claude. Grok, Kimi, Qwen, Deepseek - AI assisted task/coding
AI Code editor:
	Desktop app: Antigravity, Cursor, Replit, Kreo, Github, Visual Code
	Web app: Lovable, Bolt, emergen, etc
No need to use these now. This is discussed to understand about the categories.
Agentic Code: Doing for task and development. onlyin 6th week. - Agentic coding
	Claude
	Kimi
	OpenCode


Hugging face:
Social media for AI developers
AI models built are published in this platform. we can download and use them.
Launch huggingface.co and go to spaces to check on all models. Explore all models to check on their capabilities

How to pull open source model from huggingface:
Learnt how to pull the model to local vscode

How to pull open source model from Ollama:
install ollama in local system